The basic building block of angular apps is the component. It's a piece of the ui, small or large, decoupled and reusable or crafted for a specific page, but in any case, it provides a uniform API to deal with input, rendering and output. Components in angular have a lot of parts: templates, controllers with lifecycle hooks, and options like transclude. The template will be any valid html, and add to that the css of the component. Despite of that the component should work as much as possible as a pure function, that is if the same input is given to a component, the same ui should be rendered to the user. The component is the easier thing to get wrong, the toughest to test, the harder to predict, and if breaks, no exception handler will save you, your ui will be broken and the user will see.
Pure components are components that containing no internal state, only inputs and callbacks. This should be your low level components, your form controls, your dropdowns, your button groups, your visual components, they are one styling away from being used on any part of your app, or any other app. In the other end you have stateful components, they behaviour as a app, they have access to services that have the state, know how to change the state. They also coordinate the communication between several other components, keeping a internal state that in a predictable time will be communicated back to the service. Even if they are called stateful, the state that they have in themselves should be kept to a minimum, and manipulation even more so, and the majority of it should be delegated to services and factories.
